This month,
I’d like to talk to you on the subject
“Jehovah Loves You
Despite Appearances or Imperfections.”
You’ll likely notice
there are two areas we’ll discuss:
our appearance and our imperfections.
Why address these two aspects?
It’s because there’s a percentage
of Jehovah’s faithful servants
that wonder if Jehovah can really love them
because of one of those two reasons
or both.
Let’s take appearances first.
When you’ve gotten all cleaned up
and are fully dressed each day
and you glance in a full-length mirror,
are you pleased with the way you look?
Would you like to change a few things,
but you can’t?
Some of us tend to compare ourselves
to other imperfect humans
and adopt the thinking of the masses.
Movies and television
have blinded many to reality,
making them feel
that the beauty of the human body
must look like the handsome
and beautiful movie stars
and famed athletes.
However, comparing ourselves to them
can often be very disappointing,
time consuming, and even expensive
if you go to great lengths
to try to look more like another person.
It’s true that some have been born
with a physical impairment or disability.
This may be obvious to others,
and some unkind people
might have made comments
or teased the person.
That can make the person feel self-conscious
or even create a feeling of low self-esteem.
This can become so ingrained
in one’s thinking
that he might begin to feel
no one could love him.
And at times, that kind of erroneous thinking
can even affect a person’s view
of Jehovah’s love.
However, please be assured
that Jehovah loves us
despite our physical appearance.
It’s been said, “Beauty is only skin-deep.”
It fades with time.
Just look at a picture of yourself
when you were, let’s say, 17,
and then look at one
when you are in your 80’s.
You say, “That’s not me.”
Oh, yes, it is!
Humans are sometimes enamored
by appearances.
We don’t mean to do this,
but we may get caught up in this trap.
A faithful prophet of Jehovah
fell into this type of reasoning.
Do you remember when Jehovah told Samuel
to anoint the next king of Israel?
At 1 Samuel 16:3,
Jehovah told Samuel to go
to Jesse in Bethlehem,
and there He said:
“You must anoint for me
the one whom I designate to you.”
Do you have that in your mind?
‘Samuel, you must anoint
the one whom I designate to you.’
What happened?
Samuel defaulted
to the way humans sometimes view others,
or appearances.
Let’s read what happened.
It’s recorded at 1 Samuel 16:6.
It reads:
“As they came in and he saw Eliab,
“he said: ‘Surely here before Jehovah
stands his anointed one.’”
Samuel didn’t really know Eliab.
But he was impressed with his appearance.
He was tall
and likely a good-looking man.
Read along with me on the screen verse 7.
Jehovah’s way of assessing our worth
before him is very different.
Verse 7 says:
“But Jehovah said to Samuel:
“‘Do not pay attention
to his appearance
“‘and how tall he is,
“‘for I have rejected him.
“‘[now note this]
“‘For the way man sees
“‘is not the way God sees,
“‘because mere man sees
what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.’”
Jehovah’s view of beauty
is different from ours.
Close your literal eyes for a minute,
and see with your mind’s eye
a beautiful bird.
Now open your eyes.
Which bird did you see?
Was it an indigo bunting,
a cardinal, or a Baltimore oriole?
Those are beautiful birds.
But does Jehovah prefer one bird over another
just because of its beauty or appearance?
What bird did Jesus choose
in teaching his disciples
a valuable lesson about Jehovah?
He used a sparrow
—a plain, somewhat drab-looking little bird
of small monetary value.
Follow along on-screen as I read
Matthew 10:29-31:
“Two sparrows sell for a coin of small value,
do they not?
“Yet not one of them will fall to the ground
“without your Father’s knowledge.
“But even the hairs of your head
are all numbered.
“So have no fear;
you are worth more than many sparrows.”
Jesus represented Jehovah’s view
of all those
who have dedicated themselves to him
and are trying to remain faithful.
Think about it.
Jehovah likely notices
when an indigo bunting,
a cardinal, or a Baltimore oriole
falls to the ground.
But Jesus made a significant point
when he chose to use
a sparrow in his illustration.
Jehovah is not impressed
with the beauty of one’s physical appearance.
He loves us as much as he loves
any of his faithful servants
despite our appearance.
In fact, Jesus went a step further and said:
“You are worth more than many sparrows.”
You’re not just a bird.
You are a precious human
who has come to know and love Jehovah.
He loves you, not because of your appearance
—being handsome, drab-looking,
short, heavy,
skinny, bald,
beautiful, less-than-beautiful,
having warts or a limp or missing limbs,
being cross-eyed
or having a different skin color
or shape of your eyes.
No, Jehovah loves you
because of who you are at heart.
Do you remember what Jehovah told Samuel?
“Man sees what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.”
Yes, Jehovah looks at you and sees
“the secret person of the heart”
that came to love your God,
the Universal Sovereign.
You cannot take that aspect away
from the attention of Jehovah.
If you love him like Jesus indicates you can,
he loves you
despite any external appearances.
You’ll likely remember what Jesus said
at Mark 12:30:
“You must love Jehovah your God
“with your whole heart
“and with your whole soul
“and with your whole mind
and with your whole strength.”
That’s it!
Jesus did not add
“and your good looks.”
No, your appearance is not a factor
in your love for Jehovah or his love for you.
Maybe you say: “I’m crippled in both feet.
“I have trouble walking.
I feel dead inside.”
You’re not the first servant of Jehovah
to feel that way.
Mephibosheth evidently felt that way.
He too was crippled in both feet.
King David had just honored him
by promising to give him property
and the privilege
of eating his meals with the king.
Notice how Mephibosheth
felt about himself
at 2 Samuel 9:8:
“What is your servant,
that you have turned your attention
to a dead dog like me?”
He did not have a high opinion of himself.
It sounds like low self-esteem, doesn’t it?
If you have a physical impairment
or a defect,
you’re not dead
but very much alive in Jehovah’s eyes.
Listen to what Jehovah tells you
at Malachi 4:2:
“But on you who honor my name,
“the sun of righteousness will shine,
“with healing in its rays;
and you will skip about
like fattened calves.”
Do what you can
with what you have to work with
knowing Jehovah loves you
and ultimately will correct
any physical problem.
You’ll then be able to live for all eternity
without any concerns about your appearance.
Now let’s talk about Jehovah’s love for us
despite our imperfections.
If you’re a human, you’re imperfect.
Sorry, that’s just the way it is.
Adam passed imperfection on to all of us.
Being imperfect, we will all make mistakes.
We all do without exception.
You’ll be embarrassed
at your imperfect reaction at times.
But it happens.
Jehovah knows our condition.
He knows what Adam handed down to us.
Yet, he still loves us despite imperfection.
It really is not our fault.
How can Jehovah still love us
when we make mistakes,
use poor judgment on occasion,
and at times fall into serious sin
(though we’re sorry and repentant afterward)?
It’s on the basis of Jesus’ ransom sacrifice.
Let’s read Mark 10:45 from the screen:
“For even the Son of man came,
“not to be ministered to,
“but to minister and to give his life
as a ransom in exchange for many.”
Jesus absorbs our mistakes.
This is possible
because he gave his perfect human life for us
in exchange for what Adam lost
and passed on to us.
And look with me at 1 Corinthians 15:22:
“For just as in Adam all are dying,
so also in the Christ
all will be made alive.”
That’s beautiful.
Jehovah does not hold
our imperfections against us.
As long as we acknowledge our imperfections
and feel remorse and are repentant,
he loves us despite the issue.
Revelation 21:1-5
says that in time humans will experience
the removal of tears,
mourning, outcry,
pain, and even death.
All of these painful situations
are based on the sin of Adam.
They will then be gone.
For obedient humans,
this means a return
to the perfect state enjoyed by man
at the beginning of human history
in the garden of Eden.
So humans will be able to enjoy
not only perfection as to faith and love
but perfection as to sinlessness.
At that time, they’ll measure up
fully and faultlessly
to God’s righteous standards for humans.
Can you imagine that glorious time?
Of course, perfection at that time
does not mean an end to variety,
as some persons often assume.
The animal kingdom,
which is the product
of Jehovah’s perfect activity,
contains enormous variety.
Our perfect earth
is likewise filled with variety,
change, and contrast.
It allows for the simple and the complex,
the plain and the fancy,
the sour and the sweet,
the rough and the smooth,
the meadows and the woods,
the mountains and the valleys.
It embraces the stimulating freshness
of early spring,
the warmth of summer,
the loveliness of autumn colors,
and the pure beauty
of freshly fallen snow.
Perfect humans will not be stereotypes
with identical personalities,
talents, and abilities.
But the beauty is that
with all of the variety of appearances,
talents, and personalities,
imperfection will be no more.
Please be assured that,
as we’ve considered from the Scriptures,
Jehovah loves each one of us
despite our appearances or imperfections.
May we all fully love
and adore Jehovah
and his Son, Christ Jesus, in return!